[New Concept Exercise] : Generators (Plane Tickets) (#2729)
exercism/python: concepts/generators/about.md

# About

## Constructing a generator

Generators are constructed much like other functions, but require a [`yield` expression](#the-yield-expression), which we will explore in depth a bit later.

An example is a function that returns the _squares_ from a given list of numbers.  As currently written, all input must be processed before any values can be returned:  

```python
>>> def squares(list_of_numbers):
>>>     squares = []
>>>     for number in list_of_numbers:
>>>         squares.append(number ** 2)
>>>     return squares
```

You can convert that function into a generator like this:

```python
def squares(list_of_numbers):
    for number in list_of_number:
        yield number ** 2
```

The rationale behind this is that you use a generator when you do not need all the values _at once_.

> This would safe you memory, since you store just the value you are _currently_ working on.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This would save you memory, since you store just the value you are _currently_ working on.
```

## Using a generator

> Generators can usually be used in place of most `iterables` in Python. This includes  _functions_ or _objects_ that require an `iterable`/`iterator` as an argument.

Reviewer: "usually" suggests "most" maybe. 

We could also say:

```suggestion
Generators may be used in place of most `iterables` in Python. This includes  _functions_ or _objects_ that require an `iterable`/`iterator` as an argument.
```

> For example, if you want to use the `squares()` generator we just constructed, we simply use:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, if you want to use the `squares()` generator we constructed, we use:
```

Reviewer: That is even still clunky.  Perhaps `generate we have constructed` is more correct.

I think the problem I am having is why would we make the generator and then decide that we do not want to use it?

So, perhaps:

```suggestion
To use the `squares()` generator:

```

Author: Yep, I agree that your last suggestion is probably much clearer! Thanks!

An example is a function that returns the _squares_ from a given list of numbers.  
As currently written, all input must be processed before any values can be returned:  

```python
>>> def squares(list_of_numbers):
>>>     squares = []
>>>     for number in list_of_numbers:
>>>         squares.append(number ** 2)
>>>     return squares
```

You can convert that function into a generator like this:

```python
def squares(list_of_numbers):
    for number in list_of_number:
        yield number ** 2
```

The rationale behind this is that you use a generator when you do not need all the values _at once_.

This saves memory and processing power, since only the value you are _currently working on_ is calculated.

## Using a generator

Generators may be used in place of most `iterables` in Python. This includes  _functions_ or _objects_ that require an `iterable`/`iterator` as an argument.

To use the `squares()` generator:

```python
>>> squared_numbers = squares([1, 2, 3, 4])

>>> for square in squared_numbers:
>>>     print(square)
1
4
9
16
```

Values within a generator can also be produced/accessed via the `next()` function. 

> `next()` calls the `__next__()` method of a generator object, "advancing" or evaluating the generator code up to its `yield` expression, which then "yields" or returns the value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`next()` calls the `__next__()` method of a generator object, "advancing" or evaluating the generator code up to its `yield` expression, which then "yields", or returns, the value.

```

Comma's to indicate that we say "yields" to indicate the return, but we could say either.

```python
square_generator = squares([1, 2])

>>> next(square_generator)
1
>>> next(square_generator)
4
```

When a `generator` is fully consumed and has no more values to return, it throws a `StopIteration` error.

```python
>>> next(square_generator)
Traceback (most recent call last):
  File "<stdin>", line 1, in <module>
StopIteration
```

### Difference between iterables and generators

Generators are a special sub-set of _iterators_.
`Iterators` are the mechanism/protocol that enables looping over _iterables_.

> Generators and and the iterators returned by common Python (`iterables`)[https://wiki.python.org/moin/Iterator] act very similarly, but there are some important differences to note:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Generators and the iterators returned by common Python (`iterables`)[https://wiki.python.org/moin/Iterator] act very similar, but there are some important differences to note:

```

The double "and" for sure.  I think that "similar" is more correct given the phrase.

- Generators are _one-way_; there is no "backing up" to a previous value.

- Iterating over generators consume the returned values; no resetting.
- Generators (_being lazily evaluated_) are not sortable and can not be reversed.

- Generators do _not_ have `indexes`, so you can't reference a previous or future value using addition or subtraction.

- Generators cannot be used with the `len()` function.

- Generators can be _finite_ or _infinite_, be careful when collecting all values from an _infinite_ generator.

> ## The yield expression

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## The `yield` expression

```
